# Emerging Technologies Repository

# Task 1: Third-Order Letter Approximation Model

### Overview:
This project implements a third-order letter approximation model using five plain-text works from Project Gutenberg. 
The purpose of this model is to count the occurances of every three-character sequence in the cleaned text of these books.
The model can provide insights into frequency of specific letter sequences. 

### Functionality:
#### 1. clean_text(file_paths)
   - Loads mutiple text files, removes unwated characters, and converts all characters to uppercase.
   - Cleans the text by retaining only alphabetic characters, full stops, and spaces.
   - Paramater: file_paths - A list of file paths to the Project Gunteberg text files.
   - Returns: A cleaned string ready for trigram analysis.
  
#### 2. generate_trigrams(text)
   - Generates a trigram model by counting the occurances of every three-characters sequneces in the cleaned text.
   - Parameter: text - The cleaned string of text from which to extract trigrams.
   - Returns: A dictionary where the keys are trigrams and the values are their respective counts.
  
#### 3. display_top_trigrams(trigram_counts, n = 100)
   - Displays the top n most frequent trigrams from the trigram model.
   - Parameters:
     - trigram_counts - The dictionary of trigrams and their counts generated by generate_trigrams().
     - n - The number of top trigrams to display.
   - Displays: Displays the result directly.

# Task 2: Third-order letter approximation generation#

### Overview:
This Task generates a 10,000-character string starting with "TH" using a trigram model. 
It determines the next character based on the last two characters by selecting from possible trigrams, weighted by their frequencies. 
Repeats until the string reaches the desired length.

### Functionality:
#### 1. generate_next_char(trigram_counts, prev_two_chars)

#### 2. generate_text(trigram_counts, length=10000)


# Task 3: Analyze Your Model

### Overview:
This task has a words.txt file, containing a list of English words, from the provided repository to your own repository. 
This list is used to analyze the 10,000-character string generated earlier. 
Spliting the string into individual words and check each one against the word list to determine if it is a valid English word. 
Finally, calculates the percentage of valid English words in the string.

### Functionality:
#### 1. load_words(file_path):

#### 2. split_text(text):

#### 3. valid_words(words, english_words):

#### 4. calculate__percentage(valid_count, total_count):


# Task 4: Export Model as JSON File
### Overview:
This task exports your trigram model as a JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) file, preserving its structure and data. 
Also saves the file in your repository with the name trigrams.json to ensure easy sharing and future use in various applications.

### Functionality:

